Contributing to `sbpy`
======================

If you are interested in contributing to `sbpy`, you can do that
through testing existing code (somewhat easy), contributing Python
code (somewhat hard), or simply by letting us know what you think. We
are also interested in code donations: if you have code written in
Python or a different programming language and you think this code
might be useful to others, please let us know.

Communicating with the developers
---------------------------------

We would prefer any communication with the development team to go
through the `github issue system
<https://guides.github.com/features/issues/>`_. This way, all
communications are centralized in one place and accessible to
everyone. `sbpy` issues can be posted `here
<https://github.com/NASA-Planetary-Science/sbpy/issues>`_.

Another way to communicate in a less official way (if you don't think
your question or suggestion is worth being remembered in the far
future) is the `sbpy slack channel <http://sbpy.slack.com>`_ (requires
sign-in). In order to request access to the slack channel, please
email sbpy.dev(at)gmail.com.

Testing
-------

We are looking for volunteers to test `sbpy` functionality. In order
to make this task worthwhile for you, we only ask you to test routines
that are stable and which you can already use for your research. We
will indicate which functions are ready to be tested on this dedicated
`status page <status.rst>`_. Keep in mind that there might be issues,
so feel free to compare the function results with your own results. If
you find a problem, please create an `issue report <https://github.com/NASA-Planetary-Science/sbpy/issues>`__.

Coding
------

If you would like to implement (or modify) some functionality
yourself, you are welcome to do so. Before you write any code, please
inform the developer via an `issue report <https://github.com/NASA-Planetary-Science/sbpy/issues>`__ of your
plans, so that duplication of works can be prevented.

If your plans have been approved by the developers, please check the
`wiki <https://github.com/NASA-Planetary-Science/sbpy/wiki>`_ for some
development guidelines or `sbpy` functionality. After reading the
guidelines, fork the `sbpy` repository and work on that code. Once you
are done, please issue a pull request, linking to your original issue
report. Please follow the `astropy code of conduct`_.

.. _astropy code of conduct: http://docs.astropy.org/en/latest/development/codeguide.html
